James' Journey is a non-profit organization created to raise awareness, support research and understand the rare genetics disorder, Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS) in honor of James Kayler (1990-2014).


In all reality a genetic disorder could happen to anyone. James spent almost his whole life not knowing he had EDS. Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is a group of disorders that affect connective tissues, which are tissues that support the skin, bones, blood vessels, and other organs. Defects in connective tissues cause the signs and symptoms of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, which vary from mildly loose joints to life-threatening complications. There are six different types. Hypermobility type (Type III) specifically affects the joints. Patients often face chronic pain, joint subluxations and dislocations as common occurrences. Classical type (Type I and II) is associated with skin as well as joint hypermobility. Typically for this type the skin is very fragile and easy bruising occurs near joints and easy broken bones. Vascular EDS, also known as VEDS, is the rarest as well as the most severe type. This type carries the possibility of spontaneous organ or arterial rupture. Complications with vein weakness and muscle rupture are common. Another type of EDS is Kyphoscoliosis (Type VI) experience scoliosis at birth with progresses. This type can experience muscle hypotonia, which is weak muscle tone, and tissue fragility. Arthrochalasia (Type VII) specifically associates with hip dislocations, joint hypermobility and subluxations. Each type is associated with the various affected gene that contains the makeup of collagen within connective tissue. Furthermore, people with Dermatosparaxis (Type VIIC) have severe skin fragility and a substantial bruising. There is often a difficulty in wound healing and scars.


James had Ehlers-Danlos syndrome - Type IV, the vascular type which is an inherited disorder of connective tissue characterized by severe arterial and digestive complications; the rarest and more severe type. He was seen by a great number of doctors as a young boy and it wasn't until he was 19 years old that doctors were able to figure out he had EDS. He fought a long courageous battle, a story that should be heard. We look forward to sharing his stories and many others to raise awareness, to support research, research funding and ultimately find a cure.


Our first step in finding a cure is working with research teams to assist with medical advancements. James’ Journey is currently working with the research team out of the University of Texas and The John Ritter Research Program, Aortic and Vascular Disease. The research team is actively pursuing a cure for Vascular EDS, the type James had. More specifically, the team is researching molecular diagnosis in vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome which can predict pattern of arterial involvement and outcomes.


James fought a long journey courageously and a beyond brave battle with Ehlers-Danlos Syndrome (EDS). James was the type of person that could not only light up a room but capture the genuine good side in every single person he met. Within minutes he could have anyone laughing and sinking into his wholesome genuine charm. To say James was unique does not do justice; he was one of a kind. He always looked out for others, instead of himself. James always kept a positive outlook on life, even in his darkest days. His journey continues through us and the war to find a cure for EDS.


James’ Journey reaches out to different networks to understand the stories and struggles of other EDS patients with the hopes to better understand the rare disorder. Ehlers Danlos syndrome is represented by a zebra, which stands a medical term for a rare condition. The reasoning behind the zebra in medicine is an explanation for physicians as to not diagnose rare conditions or exotic illnesses that are highly unlikely. Doctors are expected to encounter common diseases. “Zebras,” exist but getting diagnosed and treated can be difficult.


MISSION
Our mission is to raise awareness, support research, and share stories about Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) along with other genetic and connective tissue disorders. We can fight this war together.


VISION
Our vision is to raise awareness and find a cure for all types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. Our hope is to work with as many research programs as possible. Our hope is to make doctors and treatment accessible to patients.